Title: Paytm gains 2% on starting customer migration to PSP banks
Publish Date: 2024-04-18 09:36:09+05:30
Authors: Anishaa Kumar
URL: https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/stocks/paytm-gains-2-on-starting-customer-migration-to-psp-banks-12663221.html

As a result of the RBI actions, Paytm's unified payments interface (UPI) market share drop to nine percent in March as per data from NCPI (National Payments Corporation of India). This is the lowest level in the last four years.

Shares of Paytm gained 2 percent at the open on the NSE on April 18, a day after One 97 Communications Limited, which owns the brand Paytm, announced that it had received the go-ahead to migrate users to the new Payment System Provider (PSP) bank. At 9:20am, the stock was trading at Rs 399.10.

Follow our market blog for live updates

Story continues below Advertisement Remove Ad

In a filing on the NSE, Paytm said that it has started the customer migration to partner payment service provider (PSP) banks - Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, SBI and Yes Bank in place of Paytm Payments Bank Limited (PPBL). This move comes after NPCIs approval on March 14.

On January 31, 2024, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had imposed major business restrictions on Paytm Payments Bank, barring it from accepting fresh deposits and doing credit transactions after February 29 because of "persistent non-compliance and continued material supervisory concerns in the bank". Following this, on March 11, the RBI barred Paytm Payments Bank from onboarding new customers.

Also read: Paytm starts migrating customers to new UPI IDs

As a result of the RBI actions, Paytm's unified payments interface (UPI) market share drop to nine percent in March as per data from NCPI (National Payments Corporation of India). This is the lowest level in the last four years.

Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts on Moneycontrol.com are their own and not those of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.