Title: Zuck just revealed the secret ingredient in his bromance with Jensen Huang
Publish Date: None
Authors: 
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/mark-zuckerberg-meta-nvidia-jensen-huang-bromance-cooking-2024-4

Mark Zuckerberg talked about his budding friendship with Jensen Huang in a new podcast.

The Meta boss said the Nvidia CEO once invited him to his house to cook cheesesteaks.

Mark Zuckerberg and Jensen Huang's friendship appears to be Silicon Valley's latest bromance.

They have a lot in common: both run Big Tech firms worth trillions, they each have a signature jacket, and now they're bonding over cheesesteaks.

The Meta CEO said the dynamic duo like to break bread and revealed what they chat about when they get together.

On a podcast with internet personality Roberto Nickson that dropped on Thursday, Zuck said: "Jensen is really into cooking, so he invited me over to his house."

He added: "When we went over to his place, he was like, 'Let's make cheesesteaks,' and I'm like, 'hell yeah, let's make cheesesteaks'."

Zuck also shared that Huang talks to him about how he approaches building Nvidia and the pair exchange stories and experiences from running their own companies.

"He and I, at this point, are the longest-standing tech founders of Big Tech companies," Zuck said.

The Meta chief is worth $178 billion, per Bloomberg, and just became the world's third-richest person, overtaking Elon Musk. Huang is worth less than half as much — $74.6 billion.

However, the positions are reversed when it comes to the value of their respective companies: the chipmaker is worth $2.1 trillion, while the Facebook and Instagram owner trails at just $1.3 trillion.

Zuckerberg recently posted a photo on Instagram showing they'd swapped their jackets. Zuck wrote in a comment: "He's like Taylor Swift, but for tech."

Zuck's also sustained their budding bromance by writing a profile of Huang for Time magazine's Time100: Most Influential People of 2024 list.

He wrote: "I always admired leaders who have the grit and determination to stick with their vision for long periods of time. Jensen Huang is the clear leader of the tech industry in this regard."

Zuck praised Huang's ability to "evolve and execute" and build Nvidia into a power player in AI. "On top of this, Jensen has also taken the time to help me and other founders when we've faced challenges. I'm deeply appreciative of everything he has done for our industry."

Representatives for Zuckerberg at Meta and Huang and Nvidia did not immediately respond to requests for comment from Business Insider, made outside normal working hours.