Title: Mark Zuckerberg says Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang is basically the Taylor Swift of tech
Publish Date: None
Authors: 
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/mark-zuckerberg-says-nvidias-jensen-huang-tech-taylor-swift-2024-3

Music has Taylor Swift, and tech has Jensen Huang — at least, according to Mark Zuckerberg.

Zuckerberg likened Nvidia's CEO to the pop star on Tuesday.

Mark Zuckerberg really, really likes Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang.

Zuckerberg on Tuesday showed off his "jersey swap" with Huang, posting a photo of the moment he swapped his shearling brown jacket for Huang's iconic black leather jacket.

Not everyone knew who the Meta chief was posing with — but one person dared to slip into the comments section and ask Zuckerberg who Huang was.

Zuckerberg's response?

"He's like Taylor Swift, but for tech," Zuckerberg wrote in an Instagram comment on Tuesday.

This isn't the first time Huang's been described as the tech world's version of Swift.

Huang acknowledged the comparisons when he made a joke about having to perform like Swift during Nvidia's GPU Technology Conference on March 18.

"As I was simulating how this keynote was going to turn out, somebody did say that another performer did her performance completely on a treadmill so that she could be in shape to deliver it with full energy," Huang said, referencing Swift's grueling training regime for her record-breaking Eras Tour.

"I didn't do that. If I get a low wind at about 10 minutes into this, you know what happened," he continued.

Yet for Zuckerberg, gushing about Huang isn't just about Swiftie-style fanboying. Huang's work at Nvidia is vital to Meta's survival, given Zuckerberg's professed ambitions for Meta to become a leading player in artificial intelligence.

As part of that goal, Zuckerberg has been building up a stockpile of Nvidia's chips, which can be used to train and deploy AI models.

Zuckerberg disclosed in an interview with The Verge in January that Meta would own more than 340,000 Nvidia H100 GPUs by the end of 2024.

"We have built up the capacity to do this at a scale that may be larger than any other individual company. I think a lot of people may not appreciate that," Zuckerberg told the outlet.

The relentless race toward AI domination by companies such as Meta has also placed Huang's Nvidia in an enviable position.

Last month, Nvidia's valuation reached $2 trillion, beating out Amazon and Alphabet. Nvidia's worth now also rivals the entire Chinese stock market.

Representatives for Nvidia declined to comment on Zuckerberg's remarks on Huang when approached by Business Insider.